---
toc: true
layout: post
description: steps and considerations for abstract writing
categories: [Research HOWTO]
permalink: /how-to-write-an-abstract/
search_exclude: false
title: How to Write an Abstract
show_tags: true
---
## Why is a good abstract important?

- People often judge from an abstract of a paper to decide whether or not they want to invest their time in it.
- Online databases typically contain only abstracts.
- Editors or reviewers use abstracts as the first parts to evaluate your work.

Hence, a concise and effective abstract well-describing your work increases search-ability and readership, and most important of all, expedite editorial evaluation.

## My steps for writing an abstract

1. Write the paper first, and then use the abstract as a self-contained summary.
2. As I start to work on the abstract, I go over the paper and outline the following: 

    **Elements I collect before for an abstract**
    - **Motivation of my work** (Optional)
        - Why do my readers need to care about the problem?
            - strengthen the importance of my work
        - If    1) the motivation could not be easily written
            
            or  2) the problem is widely recognized as important, I’ll give a brief introduction to the problem/research area instead, or just skip this part.
            
            - Ex: mention the difficulty of the research area
    - **Problem statement**
        - What is the problem I am trying to solve?
        - Clearly define the scope of my work, ex: a general approach, a framework for historical research
    - **Approach**
        - What is my method? How did I solve the problem?
    - **Results**
        - What’s the result of my approach?
            - This is usually the evaluation part of the designed model.
            - ex: better performance.
        - focus on key results and findings
    - **Conclusion**
        - What are the implications of the results/findings? Why does it matter? What’s the impact?
        - What is the message I want my readers to take home (remember about my work)?
        
3. Other considerations
    - Include keywords or phrases to help readers search for my paper
    - Don’t include citations or references, unless you know your audience will be experts in this research area. Keep it straightforward for a general audience
4. After finishing the first draft of the abstract. I check if all the key ideas of the paper are included.

---

## An example of my work

**Abstract for BRCC**

[ Problem statement ]

In this paper, we study the performance of cross-lingual language models (XLMs) pre-trained on a synthetic Bahasa Rojak code-mixed corpus, consisting of English, Malay, and Chinese, generated by data augmentation. 

[ Approach ]

We also present a new pre-trained language model, **Mixed-XLM**, adapted from the vanilla XLM (Lample and Conneau, 2019), which leverages an auto-tagging mechanism to handle code-mixed data. 

The development of pre-trained Mixed-XLM for Bahasa Rojak is supported by the creation of a new resource in this research, **Bahasa Rojak Crawled Corpus (BRCC)**, which contains two million paragraphs in English, Malay, and Bahasa Rojak, respectively. 

[ Results ]

We evaluate the pre-trained Mixed-XLM on a newly constructed Bahasa Rojak sentiment analysis dataset, SentiBahasaRojak, with a Kappa value of 0.77. 

[ Implications and Conclusion ]

Empirical results demonstrate the efficacy of BRCC, and the strong performance of Mixed-XLM suggests that pretraining on additional synthetic code-mixed data improves XLMs’ capacity to handle the code-mixed characteristics of Bahasa Rojak.

[ Take home message ]

 To the best of our knowledge, BRCC is the first large-scale Bahasa Rojak Corpus for pretraining.